site/content/en/docs/Installation/Terraform/gke.md, before:

---
title: "Installing Agones on Google Kubernetes Engine using Terraform"
linkTitle: "Google Cloud"
weight: 10
description: >
  You can use Terraform to provision a GKE cluster and install Agones on it.
---

## Before you begin

Take the following steps to enable the Kubernetes Engine API:

1. Visit the [Kubernetes Engine][kubernetes] page in the Google Cloud Platform Console.
1. Create or select a project.
1. Wait for the API and related services to be enabled. This can take several minutes.
1. [Enable billing][billing] for your project.
  * If you are not an existing GCP user, you may be able to enroll for a $300 US [Free Trial][trial] credit.

[kubernetes]: https://console.cloud.google.com/kubernetes/list
[billing]: https://support.google.com/cloud/answer/6293499#enable-billing
[trial]: https://cloud.google.com/free/

### Choosing a shell

To complete this quickstart, we can use either [Google Cloud Shell][cloud-shell] or a local shell.

Google Cloud Shell is a shell environment for managing resources hosted on Google Cloud Platform (GCP). Cloud Shell comes preinstalled with the [gcloud][gcloud] and [kubectl][kubectl] command-line tools. `gcloud` provides the primary command-line interface for GCP, and `kubectl` provides the command-line interface for running commands against Kubernetes clusters.

If you prefer using your local shell, you must install the gcloud and kubectl command-line tools in your environment.

[cloud-shell]: https://cloud.google.com/shell/
[gcloud]: https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/
[kubectl]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/kubectl-overview/

#### Cloud shell

To launch Cloud Shell, perform the following steps:

1. Go to [Google Cloud Platform Console][cloud]
1. From the top-right corner of the console, click the 
   **Activate Google Cloud Shell** button: ![cloud shell](../../../../images/cloud-shell.png)
1. A Cloud Shell session opens inside a frame at the bottom of the console. Use this shell to run `gcloud` and `kubectl` commands.
1. Set a compute zone in your geographical region with the following command. The compute zone will be something like `us-west1-a`. A full list can be found [here][zones].
   ```bash
   gcloud config set compute/zone [COMPUTE_ZONE]
   ```

[cloud]: https://console.cloud.google.com/home/dashboard
[zones]: https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones/#available

#### Local shell

To install `gcloud` and `kubectl`, perform the following steps:

1. [Install the Google Cloud SDK][gcloud-install], which includes the `gcloud` command-line tool.
1. Initialize some default configuration by running the following command.
   * When asked `Do you want to configure a default Compute Region and Zone? (Y/n)?`, enter `Y` and choose a zone in your geographical region of choice.
   ```bash
   gcloud init
   ```
1. Install the `kubectl` command-line tool by running the following command:
   ```bash
   gcloud components install kubectl
   ```

[gcloud-install]: https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/quickstarts

## Installation

An example configuration can be found here:
 {{< ghlink href="examples/terraform-submodules/gke/module.tf" >}}Terraform configuration with Agones submodule{{< /ghlink >}}. 
 
Copy this file into a local directory where you will execute the terraform commands.

The GKE cluster created from the example configuration will contain 3 Node Pools:

- `"default"` node pool with `"game-server"` tag, containing 4 nodes.
- `"agones-system"` node pool for Agones Controller.
- `"agones-metrics"` for monitoring and metrics collecting purpose.

Additionally, a `"tiller"` service account will be created with ClusterRole.

Configurable parameters:

- project - your Google Cloud Project ID (required)
- name - the name of the GKE cluster (default is "agones-terraform-example")
- agones_version - the version of agones to install (default is the latest version from the [Helm repository](https://agones.dev/chart/stable))
- machine_type - machine type for hosting game servers (default is "n1-standard-4")
- node_count - count of game server nodes for the default node pool (default is "4")

### Creating the cluster

In the directory where you created `module.tf`, run:
```
terraform init
```

This will cause terraform to clone the Agones repository and use the `./build` folder as starting point of Agones submodule, which contains all necessary Terraform configuration files.

Next make sure that you can authenticate using gcloud:
```
gcloud auth application-default login
```

Now you can create your GKE cluster (optionally specifying the version of Agones you want to use):
```
terraform apply -var project="<YOUR_GCP_ProjectID>" [-var agones_version="1.0.0"]
```

To verify that the cluster was created successfully, set up your kubectl credentials:
```
gcloud container clusters get-credentials --zone us-west1-c agones-terraform-example
```

Then check that you have access to the Kubernetes cluster:
```
kubectl get nodes
```

You should have 6 nodes in `Ready` state.

### Uninstall the Agones and delete GKE cluster

To delete all resources provisioned by Terraform:
```
terraform destroy
```

## Next Steps

- [Confirm Agones is up and running]({{< relref "../confirm.md" >}})

Commit message:

Fix for critical GKE/GCP Terraform Bugs
This fixes several critical issues, and also cleans up other aspect
along the way. Primarily that the firewall rule would never allow
traffic to the cluster, since they were erroneously configured and on a
completely different network to the cluster.

Bug Fixes:
1. Remove the creation of a separate network for each cluster
1. Make sure the firewall rules don't filter on tags, but target on
   network tags.
1. Be able to pass in a `network` argument (defaulting to "default"),
such that if you want to run a cluster on a different network it is easy
to configure - this means that the firewall rule is always on the same
network as the cluster.
1. Controller deployment was set to "Always" image pull policy on both
the controller and the sidecar. This should never be configured this way
for production systems, and is therefore an unsafe default.

Cleanup:
1. Remove duplicate helm.tf and cluster.tf in root ./install/terraform
path, as they were diverging, and served no value. Both ./gke and
./gke-local installation scripts have also been updated, as well as the
documentation.
1. Needed to upgrade Terraform in the build shell, since all modules
used a later version.
1. Cleaned up deprecation comments
1. Removed the broken symlinks in ./build

I would like to also make it easier to have only one GCP firewall rule
for n number of clusters, but we can tackle that in a later PR.

Closes #1372

site/content/en/docs/Installation/Terraform/gke.md, after:

---
title: "Installing Agones on Google Kubernetes Engine using Terraform"
linkTitle: "Google Cloud"
weight: 10
description: >
  You can use Terraform to provision a GKE cluster and install Agones on it.
---

## Before you begin

Take the following steps to enable the Kubernetes Engine API:

1. Visit the [Kubernetes Engine][kubernetes] page in the Google Cloud Platform Console.
1. Create or select a project.
1. Wait for the API and related services to be enabled. This can take several minutes.
1. [Enable billing][billing] for your project.
  * If you are not an existing GCP user, you may be able to enroll for a $300 US [Free Trial][trial] credit.

[kubernetes]: https://console.cloud.google.com/kubernetes/list
[billing]: https://support.google.com/cloud/answer/6293499#enable-billing
[trial]: https://cloud.google.com/free/

### Choosing a shell

To complete this quickstart, we can use either [Google Cloud Shell][cloud-shell] or a local shell.

Google Cloud Shell is a shell environment for managing resources hosted on Google Cloud Platform (GCP). Cloud Shell comes preinstalled with the [gcloud][gcloud] and [kubectl][kubectl] command-line tools. `gcloud` provides the primary command-line interface for GCP, and `kubectl` provides the command-line interface for running commands against Kubernetes clusters.

If you prefer using your local shell, you must install the gcloud and kubectl command-line tools in your environment.

[cloud-shell]: https://cloud.google.com/shell/
[gcloud]: https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/
[kubectl]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/kubectl-overview/

#### Cloud shell

To launch Cloud Shell, perform the following steps:

1. Go to [Google Cloud Platform Console][cloud]
1. From the top-right corner of the console, click the 
   **Activate Google Cloud Shell** button: ![cloud shell](../../../../images/cloud-shell.png)
1. A Cloud Shell session opens inside a frame at the bottom of the console. Use this shell to run `gcloud` and `kubectl` commands.
1. Set a compute zone in your geographical region with the following command. The compute zone will be something like `us-west1-a`. A full list can be found [here][zones].
   ```bash
   gcloud config set compute/zone [COMPUTE_ZONE]
   ```

[cloud]: https://console.cloud.google.com/home/dashboard
[zones]: https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones/#available

#### Local shell

To install `gcloud` and `kubectl`, perform the following steps:

1. [Install the Google Cloud SDK][gcloud-install], which includes the `gcloud` command-line tool.
1. Initialize some default configuration by running the following command.
   * When asked `Do you want to configure a default Compute Region and Zone? (Y/n)?`, enter `Y` and choose a zone in your geographical region of choice.
   ```bash
   gcloud init
   ```
1. Install the `kubectl` command-line tool by running the following command:
   ```bash
   gcloud components install kubectl
   ```

[gcloud-install]: https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/quickstarts

## Installation

An example configuration can be found here:
 {{< ghlink href="examples/terraform-submodules/gke/module.tf" >}}Terraform configuration with Agones submodule{{< /ghlink >}}. 
 
Copy this file into a local directory where you will execute the terraform commands.

The GKE cluster created from the example configuration will contain 3 Node Pools:

- `"default"` node pool with `"game-server"` tag, containing 4 nodes.
- `"agones-system"` node pool for Agones Controller.
- `"agones-metrics"` for monitoring and metrics collecting purpose.

Additionally, a `"tiller"` service account will be created with ClusterRole.

Configurable parameters:

- project - your Google Cloud Project ID (required)
- name - the name of the GKE cluster (default is "agones-terraform-example")
- agones_version - the version of agones to install (default is the latest version from the [Helm repository](https://agones.dev/chart/stable))
- machine_type - machine type for hosting game servers (default is "n1-standard-4")
- node_count - count of game server nodes for the default node pool (default is "4")
- network - the name of the network you want your cluster and firewall rules to reside (default is "default")

{{% alert title="Warning" color="warning"%}}
On the lines that read `source = "git::https://github.com/googleforgames/agones.git//install/terraform/modules/gke/?ref=master"`
make sure to change `?ref=master` to match your targeted Agones release, as Terraform modules can change between
releases.

For example, if you are targeting release {{< release-branch >}}, then you will want to have 
`source = "git::https://github.com/googleforgames/agones.git//install/terraform/modules/gke/?ref=release-{{< release-branch >}}"`
as your source.
{{% /alert %}}

### Creating the cluster

In the directory where you created `module.tf`, run:
```
terraform init
```

This will cause terraform to clone the Agones repository and use the `./install/terraform` folder as starting point of
Agones submodule, which contains all necessary Terraform configuration files.

Next make sure that you can authenticate using gcloud:
```
gcloud auth application-default login
```

Now you can create your GKE cluster (optionally specifying the version of Agones you want to use):
```
terraform apply -var project="<YOUR_GCP_ProjectID>" [-var agones_version="1.0.0"]
```

To verify that the cluster was created successfully, set up your kubectl credentials:
```
gcloud container clusters get-credentials --zone us-west1-c agones-terraform-example
```

Then check that you have access to the Kubernetes cluster:
```
kubectl get nodes
```

You should have 6 nodes in `Ready` state.

### Uninstall the Agones and delete GKE cluster

To delete all resources provisioned by Terraform:
```
terraform destroy
```

## Next Steps

- [Confirm Agones is up and running]({{< relref "../confirm.md" >}})
